# Brainwave Authentication Dataset and Experiment Material
This repository contains the brainwave data and additional material used in following publications: 

Patricia Arias-Cabarcos, Thilo Habrich, Karen Becker, Christian Becker, and Thorsten Strufe (2021), _“Inexpensive Brainwave Authentication:
New Techniques and Insights on User Acceptance”_, USENIX Security Symposium 2021.
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity21/presentation/arias-cabarcos
```
@inproceedings{arias2021inexpensive,
  title={Inexpensive Brainwave Authentication: New Techniques and Insights on User Acceptance},
  author={Arias-Cabarcos, Patricia and Habrich, Thilo and Becker, Karen and Becker, Christian and Strufe, Thorsten},
  booktitle={30th $\{$USENIX$\}$ Security Symposium ($\{$USENIX$\}$ Security 21)},
  year={2021}
}
```

Arias-Cabarcos P, Fallahi M, Habrich T, Schulze K, Becker C, Strufe T. Performance and usability evaluation of brainwave authentication techniques with consumer devices. ACM Transactions on Privacy and Security. 2023 Mar 13;26(3):1-36.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/full/10.1145/3579356
```
@article{arias2023performance,
  title={Performance and usability evaluation of brainwave authentication techniques with consumer devices},
  author={Arias-Cabarcos, Patricia and Fallahi, Matin and Habrich, Thilo and Schulze, Karen and Becker, Christian and Strufe, Thorsten},
  journal={ACM Transactions on Privacy and Security},
  volume={26},
  number={3},
  pages={1--36},
  year={2023},
  publisher={ACM New York, NY}
}
```

### Dataset
The brainwave recordings can be found in the [**"Dataset"**](https://i62nextcloud.tm.kit.edu/index.php/s/YTkcB86dLA6G3wE) link. Despite 52 distinct subjects have been recorded during the experiment, we obtained consent from 38 participants to publish their brainwave data. Files for each user are preceded by a subject ID number.

Important Files: 
- files ending with *".edf"*: These files contain the brainwave recordings together with some basic eventmarkers. They can for example be read with EEGLAB in Matlab using the Biosig Toolbox or other EDF viewers.
-  txt files ending with *"-events.txt"*: This file contains exact information on the point in time when a stimulus was shown during the recording. These points in time are different for each individual recording. Therefore, there is a separate file per recording. It also contains the name of each event. This is important, because the *.edf* file does not contain the name of the events.

### Experiment 
In the **"Experiment"** folder:

- __Experiment-Overview.pdf__: This file contains background information for each recording. It also describes whether certain factors impacted the recording. Lastly it defines which group the recording belonged to. Group A means that subjects were allowed to select their stimulus during P300 Series 1 and get a stimulus assigned during P300 Series 2. For Group B subjects could choose their stimulus during P300 Series 2 and got an assigned stimulus in P300 Series 1. This is important during processing. When trying to compare the reactions generated by selected stimuli, the group of each recording needs to be kept in mind. (Recordings from group A and B need to be processed separately) 

      
- We also provide the python script of the brainwave collection experiment, implemented in PsychoPy (https://www.psychopy.org/). There are two experiments, one used during recordings of group A (**Study-design_Group A.psyexp**), and one for group B (**Study-design_Group B.psyexp**). They only differ with respect to the presentation of the P300 stimuli. The experiment can be reused with the respective stimuli to create new recordings. The specific images and video used as stimuli for the P300 and N400 tasks are not published due to copyright issues, but new pictures can be imported and used as stimuli to run the experiment.


### User Study and Additional Material  
We provide a set of Appendices (**ExtraAppendices.pdf**) with all the instruments for the recording experiment and for the user study on brainwave authentication usability: recruitment material, instructions, survey questionnaires, and codebooks for qualitative analysis. Additionally, we include a summary table with a detailed literature review of related works.

### Future
We plan to upload a tutorial and code to run the classification algorithms on the dataset.


